git init
Initializes a new Git repository in the project folder.
This allows Git to start tracking files and changes.

git status
Displays the current status of the repository.
It shows modified, staged, and untracked files.

git add .
Adds all files in the current folder to the staging area.
These files become ready for commit.

git add .gitignore
Adds only the .gitignore file to the staging area.
Used when committing only specific files.

git commit -m "message"
Creates a commit with a message describing the changes.
It saves the current staged version permanently.

git branch feature
Creates a new branch named feature.
This helps work on changes separately from main.

git checkout feature
Switches from the current branch to the feature branch.
All further work happens inside that branch.

git checkout main
Switches back to the main branch.
Used before merging feature into main.

git merge feature
Merges the feature branch changes into the main branch.
This combines both branch histories.

git log --oneline
Displays commit history in short one-line format.
Useful for quick review of commits.

git log --oneline --graph --all
Shows complete commit history with branch structure.
It helps visualize branching and merging.

git reset --soft HEAD~1
Removes the last commit but keeps changes staged.
Used for undoing the previous commit safely.

git remote add origin https://github.com/DeepaR87/GitAssignment-SGA2.git
Connects the local repository to the GitHub remote repository.
origin is the default remote name.

git push -u origin main
Pushes the local main branch to GitHub for the first time.
It also sets upstream tracking.

git push
Pushes the latest local commits to GitHub.
Used after the first successful push.

git remote -v
Displays the connected remote repository URLs.
Used to verify GitHub connection.

git restore --staged index.html
Removes a staged file from the staging area.
The file remains unchanged locally.

git restore index.html
Discards local changes made in the file.
It restores the last committed version.

git rm --cached test.log
Removes a file from Git tracking without deleting it locally.
Useful when applying .gitignore rules.

mkdir temp
Creates a folder named temp.
Used to test folder ignore in .gitignore.
